README.rst, before:

The async_generator library
===========================

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/njsmith/async_generator.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/njsmith/async_generator
   :alt: Automated test status

.. image:: https://codecov.io/gh/njsmith/async_generator/branch/master/graph/badge.svg
   :target: https://codecov.io/gh/njsmith/async_generator
   :alt: Test coverage

This is a tiny library to add "async generators" to Python 3.5. What
are those?

Option 1: `my 5-minute lightning talk demo from PyCon 2016 <https://youtu.be/PulzIT8KYLk?t=24m30s>`_

Option 2: read on!

Python's iterators are great to use -- but manually implementing the
iterator protocol (``__iter__``, ``__next__``) can be very
annoying. No-one wants to do that all the time.

Fortunately, Python has *generators*, which make it easy and
straightforward to create an *iterator* by writing a *function*. E.g.,
if you have a file where each line is a JSON document, you can make an
iterator over the decoded bodies with::

   def load_json_lines(fileobj):
       for line in fileobj:
           yield json.loads(line)

Starting in v3.5, Python has added `*async iterators* and *async
functions* <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0492/>`_. These are
like regular iterators and functions, except that they have magic
powers that let them do asynchronous I/O without twisting your control
flow into knots.

Asynchronous I/O code is all about incrementally processing streaming
data, so async iterators are super handy. But manually implementing
the async iterator protocol (``__aiter__``, ``__anext__``) can be very
annoying, which is why we want *async generators*, which make it easy
to create an *async iterator* by writing an *async function*. For
example, suppose that in our example above, we want to read the
documents from a network connection, instead of the local
filesystem. Using the `asyncio.StreamReader interface
<https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-stream.html#asyncio.StreamReader>`_
we can write::

   async def load_json_lines(asyncio_stream_reader):
       async for line in asyncio_stream_reader:
           async yield json.loads(line)

BUT! the above DOESN'T WORK in Python 3.5 -- you just get a syntax
error. In 3.5, the only way to make an async generator is to manually
define ``__aiter__`` and ``__anext__``.

**Until now.**

This is a little library which implements async generators in Python
3.5, by emulating the above syntax. The two changes are that you have
to decorate your async generators with ``@async_generator``, and
instead of writing ``async yield x`` you write ``await yield_(x)``::

   # Same example as before, but works in Python 3.5
   from async_generator import async_generator, yield_, yield_from_

   @async_generator
   async def load_json_lines(asyncio_stream_reader):
       async for line in asyncio_stream_reader:
           await yield_(json.loads(line))


Semantics
=========

This library generally follows `PEP 525
<https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0525/>`__ semantics ("as seen in
Python 3.6!"), except that it adds ``yield from`` support, and it
doesn't currently support the ``sys.{get,set}_asyncgen_hooks`` garbage
collection API. There are two main reasons for this: (a) it doesn't
exist on Python 3.5, and (b) even on 3.6, only built-in generators are
supposed to use that API, and that's not us. In any case, you probably
shouldn't be relying on garbage collection for async generators – see
`this discussion
<https://vorpus.org/blog/some-thoughts-on-asynchronous-api-design-in-a-post-asyncawait-world/#cleanup-in-generators-and-async-generators>`__
and `PEP 533 <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0533/>`__ for more
details.


aclosing
========

As discussed above, you should always explicitly call ``aclose`` on
async generators. To make this more convenient, this library also
includes an ``aclosing`` async context manager. It acts just like the
``closing`` context manager included in the stdlib ``contextlib``
module, but does ``await obj.aclose()`` instead of
``obj.close()``. Use it like this::

   from async_generator import aclosing

   async with aclosing(load_json_lines(asyncio_stream_reader)) as agen:
       async for json_obj in agen:
           ...


yield from
==========

Starting in 3.6, CPython has native support for async generators. But,
native async generators still don't support ``yield from``. This
library does. It looks like::

   @async_generator
   async def wrap_load_json_lines(asyncio_stream_reader):
       await yield_from_(load_json_lines(asyncio_stream_reader))

The ``await yield_from_(...)`` construction can be applied to any
async iterator, including class-based iterators, native async
generators, and async generators created using this library, and fully
supports the classic ``yield from`` semantics.

In fact, if you're using CPython 3.6 native generators, you can even
use this libraries ``yield_from_`` *directly inside a native
generator*::

   async def f():
       yield 2
       yield 3

   async def g():
       yield 1
       await yield_from_(f())
       yield 4

There are two limitations to watch out for, though:

* You can't write a native async generator that *only* contains
  ``yield_from_`` calls; it has to contain at least one real ``yield``
  or else the Python compiler won't know that you're trying to write
  an async generator and you'll get extremely weird results.

* You can't return values from native async generators. So this
  doesn't work::

     async def yield_and_return():
         yield 1
         yield 2
         # "SyntaxError: 'return' with value in async generator"
         return "all done"

     async def wrapper():
         yield "in wrapper"
         result = await yield_from_(yield_and_return())
         assert result == "all done"

  The solution is to convert ``yield_and_return`` to an
  ``@async_generator``::

     @async_generator
     async def yield_and_return():
         await yield_(1)
         await yield_(2)
         return "all done"

Changes
=======

1.2 (not yet released)
----------------------

* Rewrote ``yield from`` support; now has much more accurate handling
  of edge cases.
* ``yield_from_`` now works inside CPython 3.6's native async
  generators.
* Added ``aclosing`` context manager; it's pretty trivial, but if
  we're going to recommend it be used everywhere then it seems polite
  to include it.

1.1 (2016-11-06)
----------------

* Support for ``asend``\/``athrow``\/``aclose``
* Support for ``yield from``
* Add a ``__del__`` method that complains about improperly cleaned up
  async generators.
* Adapt to `the change in Python 3.5.2
  <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0492/#api-design-and-implementation-revisions>`_
  where ``__aiter__`` should now be a regular method instead of an
  async method.
* Adapt to Python 3.5.2's pickiness about iterating over
  already-exhausted coroutines.
* 100% test coverage.


1.0 (2016-07-03)
----------------

* Fixes a very nasty and hard-to-hit bug where ``await yield_(...)``
  calls could escape out to the top-level coroutine runner and get
  lost, if the last trap out to the coroutine runner before the
  ``await yield_(...)`` caused an exception to be injected.
* Infinitesimally more efficient due to re-using internal
  ``ANextIter`` objects instead of recreating them on each call to
  ``__anext__``.
* 100% test coverage.


0.0.1 (2016-05-31)
------------------

Initial release.

Commit message:

Used .. code-block:: instead of plain :: in README

README.rst, after:

The async_generator library
===========================

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/njsmith/async_generator.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/njsmith/async_generator
   :alt: Automated test status

.. image:: https://codecov.io/gh/njsmith/async_generator/branch/master/graph/badge.svg
   :target: https://codecov.io/gh/njsmith/async_generator
   :alt: Test coverage

This is a tiny library to add "async generators" to Python 3.5. What
are those?

Option 1: `my 5-minute lightning talk demo from PyCon 2016 <https://youtu.be/PulzIT8KYLk?t=24m30s>`_

Option 2: read on!

Python's iterators are great to use -- but manually implementing the
iterator protocol (``__iter__``, ``__next__``) can be very
annoying. No-one wants to do that all the time.

Fortunately, Python has *generators*, which make it easy and
straightforward to create an *iterator* by writing a *function*. E.g.,
if you have a file where each line is a JSON document, you can make an
iterator over the decoded bodies with:

.. code-block:: python3

   def load_json_lines(fileobj):
       for line in fileobj:
           yield json.loads(line)

Starting in v3.5, Python has added `*async iterators* and *async
functions* <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0492/>`_. These are
like regular iterators and functions, except that they have magic
powers that let them do asynchronous I/O without twisting your control
flow into knots.

Asynchronous I/O code is all about incrementally processing streaming
data, so async iterators are super handy. But manually implementing
the async iterator protocol (``__aiter__``, ``__anext__``) can be very
annoying, which is why we want *async generators*, which make it easy
to create an *async iterator* by writing an *async function*. For
example, suppose that in our example above, we want to read the
documents from a network connection, instead of the local
filesystem. Using the `asyncio.StreamReader interface
<https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-stream.html#asyncio.StreamReader>`_
we can write:

.. code-block:: python3

   async def load_json_lines(asyncio_stream_reader):
       async for line in asyncio_stream_reader:
           async yield json.loads(line)

BUT! the above DOESN'T WORK in Python 3.5 -- you just get a syntax
error. In 3.5, the only way to make an async generator is to manually
define ``__aiter__`` and ``__anext__``.

**Until now.**

This is a little library which implements async generators in Python
3.5, by emulating the above syntax. The two changes are that you have
to decorate your async generators with ``@async_generator``, and
instead of writing ``async yield x`` you write ``await yield_(x)``:

.. code-block:: python3

   # Same example as before, but works in Python 3.5
   from async_generator import async_generator, yield_, yield_from_

   @async_generator
   async def load_json_lines(asyncio_stream_reader):
       async for line in asyncio_stream_reader:
           await yield_(json.loads(line))


Semantics
=========

This library generally follows `PEP 525
<https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0525/>`__ semantics ("as seen in
Python 3.6!"), except that it adds ``yield from`` support, and it
doesn't currently support the ``sys.{get,set}_asyncgen_hooks`` garbage
collection API. There are two main reasons for this: (a) it doesn't
exist on Python 3.5, and (b) even on 3.6, only built-in generators are
supposed to use that API, and that's not us. In any case, you probably
shouldn't be relying on garbage collection for async generators – see
`this discussion
<https://vorpus.org/blog/some-thoughts-on-asynchronous-api-design-in-a-post-asyncawait-world/#cleanup-in-generators-and-async-generators>`__
and `PEP 533 <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0533/>`__ for more
details.


aclosing
========

As discussed above, you should always explicitly call ``aclose`` on
async generators. To make this more convenient, this library also
includes an ``aclosing`` async context manager. It acts just like the
``closing`` context manager included in the stdlib ``contextlib``
module, but does ``await obj.aclose()`` instead of
``obj.close()``. Use it like this:

.. code-block:: python3

   from async_generator import aclosing

   async with aclosing(load_json_lines(asyncio_stream_reader)) as agen:
       async for json_obj in agen:
           ...


yield from
==========

Starting in 3.6, CPython has native support for async generators. But,
native async generators still don't support ``yield from``. This
library does. It looks like:

.. code-block:: python3

   @async_generator
   async def wrap_load_json_lines(asyncio_stream_reader):
       await yield_from_(load_json_lines(asyncio_stream_reader))

The ``await yield_from_(...)`` construction can be applied to any
async iterator, including class-based iterators, native async
generators, and async generators created using this library, and fully
supports the classic ``yield from`` semantics.

In fact, if you're using CPython 3.6 native generators, you can even
use this libraries ``yield_from_`` *directly inside a native
generator*:

.. code-block:: python3

   async def f():
       yield 2
       yield 3

   async def g():
       yield 1
       await yield_from_(f())
       yield 4

There are two limitations to watch out for, though:

* You can't write a native async generator that *only* contains
  ``yield_from_`` calls; it has to contain at least one real ``yield``
  or else the Python compiler won't know that you're trying to write
  an async generator and you'll get extremely weird results.

* You can't return values from native async generators. So this
  doesn't work:

  .. code-block:: python3

     async def yield_and_return():
         yield 1
         yield 2
         # "SyntaxError: 'return' with value in async generator"
         return "all done"

     async def wrapper():
         yield "in wrapper"
         result = await yield_from_(yield_and_return())
         assert result == "all done"

  The solution is to convert ``yield_and_return`` to an
  ``@async_generator``::

     @async_generator
     async def yield_and_return():
         await yield_(1)
         await yield_(2)
         return "all done"

Changes
=======

1.2 (not yet released)
----------------------

* Rewrote ``yield from`` support; now has much more accurate handling
  of edge cases.
* ``yield_from_`` now works inside CPython 3.6's native async
  generators.
* Added ``aclosing`` context manager; it's pretty trivial, but if
  we're going to recommend it be used everywhere then it seems polite
  to include it.

1.1 (2016-11-06)
----------------

* Support for ``asend``\/``athrow``\/``aclose``
* Support for ``yield from``
* Add a ``__del__`` method that complains about improperly cleaned up
  async generators.
* Adapt to `the change in Python 3.5.2
  <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0492/#api-design-and-implementation-revisions>`_
  where ``__aiter__`` should now be a regular method instead of an
  async method.
* Adapt to Python 3.5.2's pickiness about iterating over
  already-exhausted coroutines.
* 100% test coverage.


1.0 (2016-07-03)
----------------

* Fixes a very nasty and hard-to-hit bug where ``await yield_(...)``
  calls could escape out to the top-level coroutine runner and get
  lost, if the last trap out to the coroutine runner before the
  ``await yield_(...)`` caused an exception to be injected.
* Infinitesimally more efficient due to re-using internal
  ``ANextIter`` objects instead of recreating them on each call to
  ``__anext__``.
* 100% test coverage.


0.0.1 (2016-05-31)
------------------

Initial release.
