docs/source/reference.rst, before:

API documentation
=================

Async generators
----------------

In Python 3.6+, you can write a native async generator like this::

    async def load_json_lines(stream_reader):
        async for line in stream_reader:
            yield json.loads(line)

Here's the same thing written with this library, which works on Python 3.5+::

    from async_generator import async_generator, yield

    @async_generator
    async def load_json_lines(stream_reader):
        async for line in stream_reader:
            await yield_(json.loads(line))

Basically:

* decorate your function with ``@async_generator``
* replace ``yield`` with ``await yield_()``
* replace ``yield X`` with ``await yield_(X)``

That's it!


Yield from
~~~~~~~~~~

Native async generators don't support ``yield from``::

    # Doesn't work!
    async def wrap_load_json_lines(stream_reader):
        # This is a SyntaxError
        yield from load_json_lines(stream_reader)

But we do::

    from async_generator import async_generator, yield_from_

    # This works!
    @async_generator
    async def wrap_load_json_lines(stream_reader):
        await yield_from_(load_json_lines(stream_reader))

You can only use ``yield_from_`` inside an ``@async_generator``
function, BUT the thing you PASS to ``yield_from_`` can be any kind of
async iterator, including native async generators.

Our ``yield_from_`` fully supports the classic ``yield from``
semantics, including forwarding ``asend`` and ``athrow`` calls into
the delegated async generator, and returning values::

    from async_generator import async_generator, yield_, yield_from_

    @async_generator
    async def agen1():
        await yield_(1)
        await yield_(2)
        return "great!"

    @async_generator
    async def agen2():
        value = await yield_from_(agen1())
        assert value == "great!"


Introspection
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For introspection purposes, we also export the following functions:

.. function:: isasyncgen(agen_obj)

   Returns true if passed either an async generator object created by
   this library, or a native Python 3.6+ async generator object.
   Analogous to :func:`inspect.isasyncgen` in 3.6+.

.. function:: isasyncgenfunction(agen_func)

   Returns true if passed either an async generator function created
   by this library, or a native Python 3.6+ async generator function.
   Analogous to :func:`inspect.isasyncgenfunction` in 3.6+.

Example::

   >>> isasyncgenfunction(load_json_lines)
   True
   >>> gen_object = load_json_lines(asyncio_stream_reader)
   >>> isasyncgen(gen_object)
   True

In addition, this library's async generator objects are registered
with the ``collections.abc.AsyncGenerator`` abstract base class (if
available)::

   >>> isinstance(gen_object, collections.abc.AsyncGenerator)
   True


Semantics
~~~~~~~~~

This library generally tries hard to match the semantics of Python
3.6's native async generators in every detail (`PEP 525
<https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0525/>`__), except that it adds
``yield from`` support, and it doesn't currently support the
``sys.{get,set}_asyncgen_hooks`` garbage collection API. There are two
main reasons for this: (a) it doesn't exist on Python 3.5, and (b)
even on 3.6, only built-in generators are supposed to use that API,
and that's not us. In any case, you probably shouldn't be relying on
garbage collection for async generators – see `this discussion
<https://vorpus.org/blog/some-thoughts-on-asynchronous-api-design-in-a-post-asyncawait-world/#cleanup-in-generators-and-async-generators>`__
and `PEP 533 <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0533/>`__ for more
details.


Context managers
----------------

As discussed above, you should always explicitly call ``aclose`` on
async generators. To make this more convenient, this library also
includes an ``aclosing`` async context manager. It acts just like the
``closing`` context manager included in the stdlib ``contextlib``
module, but does ``await obj.aclose()`` instead of
``obj.close()``. Use it like this::

   from async_generator import aclosing

   async with aclosing(load_json_lines(asyncio_stream_reader)) as agen:
       async for json_obj in agen:
           ...

Or if you want to write your own async context managers, we got you
covered:

.. function:: asynccontextmanager
   :decorator:

   This is a backport of :func:`contextlib.asynccontextmanager`, which
   wasn't added to the standard library until Python 3.7.

You can use ``@asynccontextmanager`` with either native async
generators, or the ones from this package. If you use it with the ones
from this package, remember that ``@asynccontextmanager`` goes *on
top* of ``@async_generator``::

   # Correct!
   @asynccontextmanager
   @async_generator
   async def my_async_context_manager():
       ...

   # This won't work :-(
   @async_generator
   @asynccontextmanager
   async def my_async_context_manager():
       ...

Commit message:

Make yield_ and yield_from_ interoperate with native async generators again
Instead of trying to explicitly construct AsyncGenValueWrapper objects, trick the interpreter into doing the wrapping and unwrapping for us. There's still some ctypes hackery involved, but it's much less finicky: just changing the type of an async generator object.

docs/source/reference.rst, after:

API documentation
=================

Async generators
----------------

In Python 3.6+, you can write a native async generator like this::

    async def load_json_lines(stream_reader):
        async for line in stream_reader:
            yield json.loads(line)

Here's the same thing written with this library, which works on Python 3.5+::

    from async_generator import async_generator, yield

    @async_generator
    async def load_json_lines(stream_reader):
        async for line in stream_reader:
            await yield_(json.loads(line))

Basically:

* decorate your function with ``@async_generator``
* replace ``yield`` with ``await yield_()``
* replace ``yield X`` with ``await yield_(X)``

That's it!


.. _yieldfrom:

Yield from
~~~~~~~~~~

Native async generators don't support ``yield from``::

    # Doesn't work!
    async def wrap_load_json_lines(stream_reader):
        # This is a SyntaxError
        yield from load_json_lines(stream_reader)

But we do::

    from async_generator import async_generator, yield_from_

    # This works!
    @async_generator
    async def wrap_load_json_lines(stream_reader):
        await yield_from_(load_json_lines(stream_reader))

You can use ``yield_from_`` inside a native async generator or an
``@async_generator`` function, and the argument can be any async
iterable. Remember that a native async generator is only created
when an ``async def`` block contains at least one ``yield``
statement; if you only ``yield_from_`` and never ``yield``,
use the ``@async_generator`` decorator.

Our ``yield_from_`` fully supports the classic ``yield from``
semantics, including forwarding ``asend`` and ``athrow`` calls into
the delegated async generator, and returning values::

    from async_generator import async_generator, yield_, yield_from_

    @async_generator
    async def agen1():
        await yield_(1)
        await yield_(2)
        return "great!"

    @async_generator
    async def agen2():
        value = await yield_from_(agen1())
        assert value == "great!"


Introspection
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For introspection purposes, we also export the following functions:

.. function:: isasyncgen(agen_obj)

   Returns true if passed either an async generator object created by
   this library, or a native Python 3.6+ async generator object.
   Analogous to :func:`inspect.isasyncgen` in 3.6+.

.. function:: isasyncgenfunction(agen_func)

   Returns true if passed either an async generator function created
   by this library, or a native Python 3.6+ async generator function.
   Analogous to :func:`inspect.isasyncgenfunction` in 3.6+.

Example::

   >>> isasyncgenfunction(load_json_lines)
   True
   >>> gen_object = load_json_lines(asyncio_stream_reader)
   >>> isasyncgen(gen_object)
   True

In addition, this library's async generator objects are registered
with the ``collections.abc.AsyncGenerator`` abstract base class (if
available)::

   >>> isinstance(gen_object, collections.abc.AsyncGenerator)
   True


Semantics
~~~~~~~~~

This library generally tries hard to match the semantics of Python
3.6's native async generators in every detail (`PEP 525
<https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0525/>`__), except that it adds
``yield from`` support, and it doesn't currently support the
``sys.{get,set}_asyncgen_hooks`` garbage collection API. There are two
main reasons for this: (a) it doesn't exist on Python 3.5, and (b)
even on 3.6, only built-in generators are supposed to use that API,
and that's not us. In any case, you probably shouldn't be relying on
garbage collection for async generators – see `this discussion
<https://vorpus.org/blog/some-thoughts-on-asynchronous-api-design-in-a-post-asyncawait-world/#cleanup-in-generators-and-async-generators>`__
and `PEP 533 <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0533/>`__ for more
details.


Context managers
----------------

As discussed above, you should always explicitly call ``aclose`` on
async generators. To make this more convenient, this library also
includes an ``aclosing`` async context manager. It acts just like the
``closing`` context manager included in the stdlib ``contextlib``
module, but does ``await obj.aclose()`` instead of
``obj.close()``. Use it like this::

   from async_generator import aclosing

   async with aclosing(load_json_lines(asyncio_stream_reader)) as agen:
       async for json_obj in agen:
           ...

Or if you want to write your own async context managers, we got you
covered:

.. function:: asynccontextmanager
   :decorator:

   This is a backport of :func:`contextlib.asynccontextmanager`, which
   wasn't added to the standard library until Python 3.7.

You can use ``@asynccontextmanager`` with either native async
generators, or the ones from this package. If you use it with the ones
from this package, remember that ``@asynccontextmanager`` goes *on
top* of ``@async_generator``::

   # Correct!
   @asynccontextmanager
   @async_generator
   async def my_async_context_manager():
       ...

   # This won't work :-(
   @async_generator
   @asynccontextmanager
   async def my_async_context_manager():
       ...
